---
layout: project
title: Client Outline and Pitch
description: Outline of our proposed solution for the New York vineyard owners' Spotted Lanternfly problem
#technologies: []
image: "/assets/images/lifting-device-design.png"
---
**Team: Spotted... then Stopped**


[View as PDF]({{ "/assets/images/ODP3-Outline.pdf" | relative_url }})


---


**Problem Statement:**


New York vineyard operators aim to maximize yield during mechanical harvesting, but Spotted Lanternflies (SLF) frequently enter harvest bins and contaminate products. A Cornell–Penn State study found that 60% of lanternflies on vines end up in harvest bins, and current standards require rejection if even 1–2 adult insects are found per 1 kg sample. Significantly disturbing the vine to remove SLF's proves a problem when harvesting. Ripe grapes detach very easily, potentially resulting in high losses if they are directly exposed to excessive forces.


---


**Impact:**


Reducing contamination during the harvesting process leads to less wasted product and maximizes yield.


---


**Proposed Direction:**


Our main idea is to have a machine attached to the front of the harvester that would get rid of the flies right before the grapes are collected.


---


**Concept A: Spinning Brushes**


An attachment to the front of the vehicle that has rotating brushes aimed at only the vine. The brushes would be located on a rotating rod (almost like a car wash brush) that scrapes the flies off the vine, placed at the right height so as to not disturb the grapes too much.


---


**How it would be used**


Mount system to harvester front


Attach height to match vine height


Brushes rotate at speed matched to forward motion


Flies are dislodged downward before grape collection


---


**Why it’s better than the status quo:**


Removes insects before contamination


Avoids post-harvest filtering grapes and flies


Compatible with current harvesting equipment


---


**End-of-semester proof-of-concept:**


Two cylindrical brushes attached to an adjustable mounting frame, spinning in tandem.


---


**Key Risks / Unknowns:**


**Damage to vines** — Reduce yield if the vine is scraped: Test bristles on vine and assess damage.  


**Knocking off grapes prematurely** — Accidental removal of grapes: Test to ensure right height of bristles to avoid contact with grapes.


**Gaps between brushes may leave some flies on vines** — Might still leave some contamination: Test prototype on model of the vine with attachments of similar grip strength to SLF.


---


**Questions for the client:**


**Can we get a blueprint/design for the harvesters used?** — Affects how the brush would mount the harvester, and design considerations that come with that.


**What is the average height/length of the vine?** — Affects the dimensions of the brush and the amount of materials needed.


**What is the durability of the vine?** — Affects the amount of force we can put on the vine and the material used for the bristles.




---


**References:**


https://wineamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/2025-WineAmerica-Methodology-4-28-25-Final.pdf


https://www.psu.edu/news/research/story/grapevines-may-only-need-help-survive-heavy-spotted-lanternfly-infestations


---
